---
layout: page
title: 🙋 Participation (Quarter 1)
description: Description of the weekly participation assignment in Quarter 1.
nav_exclude: true
---

# 🙋 Participation (Quarter 1)

Each week, at least 24 hours prior to meeting with your domain, you will submit a participation assignment. This submission serves the following purposes:
- It serves as a regular self-evaluation tool and place to gather your thoughts, so that you can address difficulties in a timely manner. The precision required of doing this in writing holds your critical assessment of your understanding to a higher bar.
- It allows your domain mentor to structure discussion ahead of time, if they so choose.

**Note:** As every domain is different, **your mentor may choose to have you answer different questions than the ones below**. This assignment is merely a default assignment. However, you should always be turning something in (with the exception of Week 1, when your mentor may not have assigned you any readings or tasks).

Please turn in answers to the following questions to Gradescope. You must answer one Question 1, one Question 2, and one Question 3; you may pick and choose between the two categories below.

**If you were primarily assigned reading for the week, answer these three questions:**

1. Describe one thing you found interesting in the reading. Describe what it is in your own words and why you found it interesting.
2. Describe one thing that you found difficult to understand. Try to be specific about what you don’t think you understand.
3. In the reading, identify one choice that the author made in their investigation and your best guess at why they made that choice. For example, this may be a choice in sub-population to study, or a choice in parameter for a model.

**If you were primarily assigned a task for the week, answer these three questions:**

1. Describe one result you found interesting doing your task. Describe what it is in your own words and why you found it interesting.
2. Describe one thing your struggled with doing your task. Try to be specific about what is causing you difficulty and why.
3. In your work, identify one choice that you made in your investigation. Why did you make this choice? Were there other choices you could’ve made that would be reasonable? For example, this may be a choice in sub-population to study, or a choice in parameter for a model.