---
layout: page
title: 🛠 Methodology Assignment 1
description: Accessing DSMLP.
nav_exclude: true
---

# 🛠 Methodology Assignment 1

Before attempting this assignment, make sure to read [Lesson 1](../../../../lessons/q1/01). Submit this assignment to Gradescope by **Sunday, October 2nd at 11:59PM**. Post questions with the assignment [here](https://edstem.org/us/courses/28947/discussion/1834300).

Follow the steps below.

1. On GitHub, create a **private** repository called `DSC180A-Methodology-1`.
2. Using SSH, log into a jumpbox server on DSMLP. **Don't run a launch script just yet** – only do that in step 6.
3. While on the jumpbox server, clone the Git repository you created. Then, change directories into repository (`cd DSC180A-Methodology-1`).
4. Run the command `uname -a > uname-jumpbox.txt`. This saves a snapshot of your server information to a file named `uname-jumpbox.txt`.
5. Run `echo ~ > homedir.txt`. This stores the path to your home directory in a file named `homedir.txt`. At this point, the `DSC180A-Methodology-1` folder should have 2 files in it – `uname-jumpbox.txt` and `homedir.txt`.
6. Use a launch script, like `launch-scipy-ml.sh`, to initialize a container. This will bring you to your home directory once again.
7. Change directories back into your repository again (`cd DSC180A-Methodology-1`). Now, run `uname -a > uname-container.txt`.
8. Open a Jupyter Notebook using the URL that appeared when you ran the launch script, either through port forwarding or the campus VPN.
9. Copy the exact URL that appeared when you ran the launch script. Suppose that URL was `XXX`. Run the command `echo XXX > notebook-url.txt`. This will create a file named `notebook-url.txt` with your notebook's URL in it. To verify that this worked correctly, run `cat notebook-url.txt` and you should see your URL.
10. Commit and push your changes to GitHub. Your repository should have 4 files in it – `uname-jumpbox.txt`, `homedir.txt`, `uname-container.txt`, and `notebook-url.txt`.
11. Submit the GitHub repository to Gradescope under Methodology Assignment 1. **Note:** You'll be able to see your score right when you submit; make sure you receive a full score.

**Note:** [Here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git) is information on using Git on the command-line. You may have to set up a [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token), especially if you run into authentication issues. In addition, you can set up [SSH keys](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Sb6tQwUVBhzcmBGWw4UnhGlYcMDdyUy3gaRKcQzYur4/edit) to avoid having to enter your username and personal access token each time you log into GitHub on DSMLP.